<<<<<<< HEAD
# DeepLearning.AI Assessment - Training Loop For a Binary Classifier Network

This repository provides a Jupyter Notebook for implementing a training loop for binary classification using a neural network, as part of the assessment for the Curricum Engineer opening.  

The environment is containerized using **Docker**, for an easy execution. 

## Steps to Run the Application

### 1. **Clone the Repository**

First, clone the repository to your local machine. Open a terminal (Command Prompt on Windows or Terminal on Linux/macOS) and run the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dataversenomad/curriculum-engineer-assessment.git
```

### 2. **Run the container to start Jupyter Lab Server**

Once you have the repository cloned, navigate to the project folder: **curriculum-engineer-assessment**

where the Dockerfile and requirements.txt are placed, and build the Docker image using:

```bash
docker run -p 8888:8888 dlai_assessment
```

Once the container is up and running, you will see output in the terminal similar to this:

```
The Jupyter Notebook is running at:
http://127.0.0.1:8888/?token=<some_token>
```
Here, <some_token> is a security token generated by Jupyter Lab when it starts. This token will be printed in the terminal output whenever you run the container.

### 3. **Open Jupyter Lab**

Next, open your web browser and go to the following URL:

http://localhost:8888/?token=<some_token>

### 4. **Run Jupyter Notebook**

Once you are inside Jupyter Lab, navigate to **"01 - NN - Implement a training loop for binary classification.ipynb"** and run the notebook.

You can now interact with the notebook.

### 5. **Clean up**

After you are done using the application, you can stop the running Docker container using the following command:

```bash
docker stop <container_id>
```
you can obtain the container_id by executing

```bash
docker ps
```

To remove unused Docker images and containers, you can clean up your Docker environment by running:

```bash
docker system prune
```


**Author: Jaime Paz Lopez. Data Scientist**

**Date: 2024-03-04**


=======
# DEEPLEARNINGAI - Jupyter Lab Training Loop for Binary Classification

Welcome to the DeepLearning.Ai **training loop project for binary classification using a neural network**. In this project, you will build a training loop for a neural network to solve a classification problem in machine learning. You will use a Jupyter notebook to complete this task. Everything is containerized using Docker for easy setup and execution on both **Windows** and **Linux** platforms.

Please follow the steps below to complete the task. Once you finish your work, you will need to build the Docker image to share your solution.

## Steps to Run the Application

### 1. **Clone the Repository**

First, clone the repository to your local machine. Open a terminal (Command Prompt on Windows or Terminal on Linux/macOS) and run the following commands:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dataversenomad/curriculum-engineer-assessment.git
cd curriculum-engineer-assessment
```

### 2. **Build the Docker Image**

Once you have the repository cloned, navigate to the project folder where the **Dockerfile** and **requirements.txt** are located. Before executing the command below, **make sure Docker is up and running on your machine**. Once Docker is ready, you need to build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t dlai_ce_assessment .
```
Building the image might take around 1 to 5 minutes, depending on your system's performance.

### 3. **Run the Docker Container**

Next, run the Docker container with the following command:

```bash
docker run -p 8888:8888 dlai_ce_assessment
```

Once the Docker container is up and running, the URL for the Jupyter notebook will be printed in the terminal output, similar to the next output:

[C 2025-03-16 14:05:59.289 ServerApp]

    To access the server, open this file in a browser:
        file:///root/.local/share/jupyter/runtime/jpserver-1-open.html
    Or copy and paste one of these URLs:
        http://localhost:8888/lab?token=<token_id>
        http://127.0.0.1:8888/lab?token=<token_id>


Here, <some_token> is a security token generated by Jupyter Lab when it starts. This token will be printed in the terminal output when you run the container, and you will only need to **copy + past**e the generated URL into your web browser to access the Jupyter Notebook interface.

### 4. **Work on the Notebook**

Once you're inside Jupyter Lab, locate the notebook **01 - NN - Implement a training loop for binary classification.ipynb** and begin working on the exercise.

- Follow the instructions in the notebook and complete the assessment.
- The notebook may contain tasks, comments, and hints to guide you through the process. Please, be sure to interact with the code and experiment with it as needed!

### 5. **Final Steps: Build the Docker Image with Your Solution**

After completing the test and verifying that your solution works, you will need to build the Docker image again to share your work. Use the following command to build the Docker image with your solution:

```bash
docker build -t dlai_ce_assessment .
```

### 6. **Clean up**

After you're done using the application, you can stop the running Jupyter notebook by going back to the original terminal and pressing **Ctrl + C**. Otherwise, if you prefer to stop the Docker container, use the following command (you can obtain the container_id by running **docker ps**):

```bash
docker stop <container_id>
```
To remove unused Docker images and containers, clean up your Docker environment by running:

```bash
docker system prune
```



**Author: Instructor Jaime Paz Lopez, Data Scientist**

**Date: 2025-03-16**

>>>>>>> e179f08 (second commit DeepLearningAI)
